1. Javascript's asynchronous nature might make it difficult for developers to keep track of multiple asynchronus tasks and nested callbacks. Javascript's loose typing allows variables to hold any types of values without explicit declaration, without strict type checking developers might get issues due to type coercion which could lead to unintended outputs. Javascript primarilty runs on web browsers which may lead to browser compatibility issues.
2. Javascript developers most likely made it loosely typed to allow for flexibility which allows for rapid prototyping and dynamic web developement. Asyncronous features allows developers to have operations such as fetching data or waiting for user input to occur without blocking the execution of other code, which leads to more responsive and efficent web applications
3. The key differences between a compiled language and an interpreted language is that compiled language is translated into machine code before they are executed, while interpreted langugages are translted inot machine code at runtime by an interpreter. Javascript is an interpreted language. The benefits of javascript being an interpreted language is that javascript code can be run on any platform with a compatible interpreter and any code can be quickly tested without needing to compile. The drawbacks are that it can have a slower execution speed compared to compiled languages and there is a lack of compile-time optimizations and error checking.
4. Mastering vanilla javascript will help us understand the language more deeply and it will also help with writing more efficent code. However, the drawbacks of not learning a framework is lack of efficency.
5. This lab relates to the project because it provides us with the basic knowledge needed to create and run web applications. Javascript will allow us to create a dynamic web application and learning about dev tools will help in the testing, debugging, and optimizing process.